There has lately been much debate and controversy regarding behavioral standards in and around collaborative projects.  The purpose of this document is to establish content & behavioral standards by which this project is to be governed and to guard against various problems and abuses which have arisen elsewhere.

These standards are to apply to communication within any official/associated forums or social platforms, as well as to submitted content & source code.  Problems arising in other forums may also factor into administrative decisions on this project.

---

This project is to be governed in a Christian manner:  All participants are reckoned to be sinners.  Conflict is understood to be an outworking of sin.  Mercy and forgiveness toward offenders is to be emphasized.  Vindictiveness and exploitation of disciplinary procedures is to be curtailed.  The particular understanding of Christianity which was recovered through the Reformation is to be adhered to (and should be promoted).  All are understood to be in of the mercy and forgiveness and propitiation that comes only from King Jesus.

---

In general, all are welcome to participate and contribute.

Courtesy and respect within this project are mandatory.  Harassment, slander, and other expressions of hatred are not acceptable behavior.  Comments which are crass or sexually explicit (or understood to be euphamistic as such) are also forbidden.

In the event that someone does behave in a manner which is offensive or which is perceived to be offensive, project participants are either to maintain a charitable disposition toward the offender and seek an opportunity to grant forgiveness and restore a peaceable relationship, or, failing that, to say nothing at all about it in public and defer the matter to project leadership.  Exhibiting a vindictive attitude toward offenders is unacceptable (even if it is found necessary to remove or ban the offender from the project).

There are a few of classes of people and institutions which have been degraded in public discourse, but which are in this project to be upheld:  Fathers, mothers, the elderly, and those in authority should be honored and respected.  Retain a respectful disposition toward the law, law enforcement, and the military.  (A qualifier is necessary here:  There are very serious problems to be found in the conduct of all nations, but it tends to get massively oversimplified, presented as one-way criticisms, and at times converted into prejudiced accusations against soldiers and policemen).

Modern revisions concerning gender, marital relations, and impartiality will not be accepted or codified.  There is to be no recognition or special status granted to any sin, nor will any efforts to place language to that effect in the project be allowed, nor is any member's unwillingness to affirm another's sin to be construed as hateful or demeaning, nor is anyone to be held responsible for another's disadvantage without any clear evidence of wrongdoing.

Criticism of others when they do wrong is at times necessary and appropriate, but keep it courteous and constructive.  But, in so doing, be mindful that every one of us are sinners - even those of us who are adept at finding sin in others.

If any participants wish to engage in religious discourse: Blasphemy or other disrespect toward God, or interpretations of Scripture which are heretical, deceitful, or careless - are not allowed in open discussion.  Even if civility is observed and the topic treated carefully, expect discussions in these topics to get relocated, directed to a relevant venue, or taken to private messages (particularly if it becomes lengthy or controversial).
